Many real-world sequential-decision making problems involving
resources, time, or spatial configurations naturally use continuous
variables in both their state and action representation and can be
modeled as Hybrid Markov Decision Processes (HMDPs).  While HMDPs have
been studied extensively in the AI
literature~\cite{boyan01,feng04,li05,kveton06,phase07,hao09}, only
recently have symbolic dynamic programming
(SDP)~\cite{sanner_uai11,zamani12} techniques been introduced to
enable the exact solution of multivariate HMDPs with continuous
actions and arbitrary piecewise linear dynamics and rewards.

%% Don't fbox your images... it looks bad... too many extra lines
%% confuse diagram and uneven padding around fbox appears sloppy.

%% DO NOT USED RASTERIZED PNGS!  Reviewers will comment on the
%% graphics not being publication quality!

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\begin{figure}[!ht]
\vspace{-2mm}
\centering
\hspace{-5mm}\includegraphics[width=0.45\textwidth]{Figures/xadds/intro_diagram.pdf}
%\subfigure[Step function] {
%	\fbox{\includegraphics[width=0.45\textwidth]{Figures/stepfun/stepfun.png}}
%	\label{fig:stepf}
%}
%\subfigure[Linear Approximation] {
%	 \fbox{\includegraphics[width=0.45\textwidth]{Figures/stepfun/stepfunapp.png}}
%	\label{fig:steptolin} 
%}
\caption{\footnotesize
(a) A function $f(x)$ for $x \in [0,5]$ and its XADD representation
(solid branch is true, dotted branch is false); (b) A compressed XADD 
approximation $g(x)$ of $f(x)$.}  \label{fig:stepfunfig}
\vspace{-3mm}
\end{figure}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

What has proved crucial in this SDP solution of piecewise linear HMDPs
is the use of the XADD data structure representation of functions
shown in Figure~\ref{fig:stepfunfig}(a,b) that allows the HMDP value
function to be represented compactly and SDP operations to be computed
efficiently.  In brief, an XADD is simply an extension of the
algebraic decision diagram (ADD)~\cite{bahar93add} to continuous
variables where decisions may be boolean variable tests or
inequalities of continuous expressions and leaves may be continuous
expressions; XADDs are evaluated similarly to decision trees.
Following the SDP work of~\cite{zamani12} for HMDPs with continuous
actions, which we extend in this work, we restrict our attention to
XADDs with linear inequalities and expressions.

While XADDs have enabled SDP solutions to HMDPs that would not be
otherwise possible with more na\"{i}ve representations of piecewise
functions, XADDs still have limitations --- for some problems the HMDP
solution (represented by a value function) simply has many distinct
pieces and does not admit a more compact \emph{exact} XADD
representation, e.g, Figure~\ref{fig:stepfunfig}(a).  However,
motivated by previous approximation work in discrete factored MDPs
using ADD approximation~\cite{apricodd}, we pose the question of
whether there exists a technique for compressing an XADD in exchange
for some bounded approximation error; as a hint of the solution we
note that Figure~\ref{fig:stepfunfig}(a) can be compactly approximated
by \ref{fig:stepfunfig}(b) which is more compact and induces
relatively small approximation error.  In the case of ADDs, this
approximation process was straightforward: leaves with nearby constant
values are averaged and merged, leading to bottom-up compaction of the
ADD.  In the XADD, if we wish to take a similar approach, we see that
the problem is more complex since it is not clear (1) which leaves to
merge, or (2) how to find the best approximation of these leaves that
minimizes the error over the constrained, continuous space where each
leaf is valid --- indeed, as Figure~\ref{fig:stepfunfig}(a,b)
demonstrates, the answer is not given simply by averaging leaves since
the average of constant leaves in (a) could never produce the linear
function in the leaves of (b).  Hence, we wish to answer questions (1)
and (2) to produce an approximation like that given in
Figure~\ref{fig:stepfunfig}.

To answer these questions, we propose a bounded error compression
technique for linear XADDs that involves the solution of a constrained
bilinear saddle point problem.  Fortuitously, we show that given the
special structure of this problem, it can be expressed as a bilevel
linear programming problem. % (where a constraint itself is an
%optimization problem, leading to a second level of optimization).
While the second-level optimization problem in this
bilevel program implicitly represents an infinite number of
constraints, we show that a constraint generation approach for 
the second stage allows the first stage to terminate at
optimality after generating only a finite number of constraints.  This
solution permits the use of efficient linear program solvers for XADD
compression and enables a novel class of bounded approximate SDP
algorithms for hybrid MDPs.  Empirically we demonstrate that this
approach to XADD compression offers order-of-magnitude speedups over
the exact solution in exchange for a small approximation error, thus
vastly increasing the range of HMDPs for which solutions with strong
error guarantees are possible.

%% No mention of paper organization: this is just filler content that
%% no one ever reads -- readers spot it and skip to the next section.
